Nectar to Benefit Others: Advice to Encourage Intelligent People as to What Should Be Practiced Namo gurubhyaḥ! Attention! Pay heed, my intelligent friends! Be it that you wish to practice the sublime Dharma and not just talk about it, Choose to give up your pride, and follow with single-minded Devotion an excellent master who will guide you wherever you go. Endowed with the freedoms and advantages of human existence, Fitting in appearance with the Dharma, uninfluenced by concerns for material wealth, Giving up craving for tea, beer, enjoyments, and socializing, Hasten to bring your qualities to completion like the full moon. In the solitude of, say, a tāla palm Jungle, or in a town with many different things to see-wherever you may be, Keep in mind always that you are conditioned: say to yourself, "Let me remember, there's no knowing when, from now on, death will strike." Maybe you haven't practiced the sublime Pāramitā teachings, so you will Need to follow your karma to the other shore. Therefore, you Ought to increase your merit, which will fulfill all your desires, like the cow of Plenty, the tree of miracles, or the vase of wealth. Quantifiable they are not, those sufferings of heat and cold in the three Realms of saṃsāra, which revolve like a cakra. So, constant like Jahnu's stream, cultivate the mind of renunciation, Traversing mountainous ravines like a fox. Upon your head, like a crown, venerate your master and the Triple Gem. Cast aside, like nettles, harsh thoughts and deeds. Valuing not just yourself but others too, Cultivate the two aspects of bodhicitta together. We will give meaning to our lives endowed with freedoms and advantages, If, striving hard in all ten Dharma deeds, not just a few, we display Xtraordinary courage, just like Rāmaṇa did. By doing so, the world's three levels will be filled with our beautiful music. You may find my words and meaning not so well connected, Yet it is heartfelt advice to benefit others. Through this, may Zillions of beings in their entirety realize The meaning of the letter A-nonbirth, the ultimate Mañjughoṣa. This instruction was given by the renunciant yogi Khyentse Wangpo with the heartfelt wish to benefit those who rely on him. May it bring virtue and excellence! Sarvadā kalyāṇaṃ bhavatu! 
